# The Church Web Platform
A template-less golang Content Management System (CMS) based on the Echo web framework (https://github.com/labstack/echo) and SQLBoiler (https://github.com/vattle/sqlboiler) and an innovative, think-outside-the-box golang architecture. 

## Intro
The project started from the need to build a sustainable website for a small church pastored by a friend. The site needed to allow admins to maintain events, sermons, and articles. Here's a temporary link to that site: http://www.calvaryeastmetro.com
- The start of commit history here represents 1.5 years of previous work - so this sits on top of a great amount of innovation and effort, yet this is just the beginning...
- Note: while I feel the project, once configured is production ready, please use at your own discretion. 
- Note also that over the next couple months there may be some change to the architecture.
- The project will adopt semantic versioning very soon

## Architecture
- The **Echo** web framework (https://github.com/labstack/echo) was chosen because of its maturity and simplicity - hey, and speed too
- **Postgres** is our main database. **SQLBoiler** provides a code-generated, thus compiled and performant database interface layer
- **Redis** provides our session and (soon) our caching store
- Template - none. This is a **code-first** platform (anyone here love Go?), as such HTML is generated by Go, _simply_, with **github.com/rohanthewiz/element**.
- Glide is used for dependency management - why? It still works great while we wait for the dust to settle from the transition from Dep to Vgo.
- Sermons are uploaded to the server then copied by a goroutine to an ftp site.
- Images uploaded via the online editor are resized then stored locally on the server
- Styling - See the Contributing section for the policy on styling - basically do your own, but don't contribute it back so projects can be styled differently.See the example app for an example (coming soon) using [stylus] (http://stylus-lang.com) - my CSS processor of choice.
- BTW Bootstrap is only used in the online editor Summer Note. I therefore limit Bootstrap CSS to just form scope.
- And don't worry, Docker will come. Let's just everything jiving smoothly first.  

## STOP !!! The platform has drastically changed!
Church is now a **Go module**, so some of the below may not apply. Give me a bit to update the README.
In the meantime see github.com/rohanthewiz/church_example for usage. Thanks!

## General Workflow
1. Make a fork of the 'github.com/rohanthewiz/church_example' project and clone your fork to local
1. Check out the `master` branch
1. Build and run the app: `go build; ./app_name`

## Platform Setup
The project requires
- Go 1.11 or greater
- Postgres around 9.5 or later
- Redis
- VIPS image library (optional - only for image resizing)
Note: feel free to use your own deployment strategy. The below is an **example install on Ubuntu Linux**.

### Server Prep
Basically everything is built on the server for now (KISS comes to mind)
- Note: I prefer not to include `$GOPATH/bin` in my PATH, but rather manually copy executables to `~/bin` which I include in my PATH
- Newb: 
    1. Create the directory (folder) with `mkdir ~/bin`
    1. To include `~/bin` in your path add a line like this to `~/.profile`: `PATH="$HOME/bin:$PATH"`

#### Install Go
- Follow install instructions at: https://golang.org/doc/install
- Run `go env` to see if everything is sane. Mine looks like this:

```bash
GOARCH="amd64"
GOBIN=""
GOEXE=""
GOHOSTARCH="amd64"
GOHOSTOS="linux"
GOOS="linux"
GOPATH="/home/myuser/go"
GORACE=""
GOROOT="/home/myuser/apps/go"
GOTOOLDIR="/home/myuser/apps/go/pkg/tool/linux_amd64"
GCCGO="gccgo"
CC="gcc"
GOGCCFLAGS="-fPIC -m64 -pthread -fmessage-length=0 -fdebug-prefix-map=/tmp/go-build264891901=/tmp/go-build -gno-record-gcc-switches"
CXX="g++"
CGO_ENABLED="1"
CGO_CFLAGS="-g -O2"
CGO_CPPFLAGS=""
CGO_CXXFLAGS="-g -O2"
CGO_FFLAGS="-g -O2"
CGO_LDFLAGS="-g -O2"
PKG_CONFIG="pkg-config"
```

#### Install GCC and build tools
- Install gcc and essential build tools (needed for VIPS and glide install): `sudo apt-get install build-essential`

#### Install postgres server
- Follow instructions here: https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/ubuntu/ (Get the server *and client tools*)
- For passwords to work without known system user, change an entry in */etc/postgresql/<postgres-version>/main/pg_hba.conf*
- In pg_hba.conf, change this line: 

```
local   all             all                                     peer
```
to:  

```
local   all             all                                     password
```
- Restart the postgres server `sudo service postgresql restart`
- Check that the server is running properly with `sudo service postgresql status` (it should say "online" or similar)
- Go into psql as user postgres `sudo -u postgres psql postgres` This is one way to login after a fresh reload of postgres.
- Change the postgres user's password with `\password postres`

#### Install Redis Server
- Install redis `sudo apt install redis-server`

#### Install VIPS
VIPS is used to automatically resize images added to the editor. _We most likely don't need all libraries installed below_. In fact, VIPS isn't critical to the app - you should lose only the image resizing capability.

```bash
### hmm should we just install this from apt?
sudo apt install libvips-dev

### if installing from apt then maybe we don't need all the installs below - to be tested
mkdir ~/libs
cd libs
wget https://github.com/jcupitt/libvips/releases/download/v8.5.9/vips-8.5.9.tar.gz
tar -xf vips-8.5.9.tar.gz
cd vips-8.5.9/
./configure
gcc -v
which pkg-config
sudo apt-get install pkg-config
sudo apt-get install libgmodule2.0-dev
sudo apt-get install libgmodule2.0
sudo apt-get install libexpat-dev
sudo apt-get install libexpat2-dev
sudo apt-get install libexpat2.2.5-dev
sudo apt-get install libexpat2.2-dev
sudo apt-get install libexpat2
sudo apt-get install libexpat-2
sudo apt-get install libexpat2.0
sudo apt-get install libexpat1-dev
sudo apt-get install libpng
sudo apt-get install libpng2
sudo apt install libjpeg-dev
sudo apt install libpng16
sudo apt install libpng16-dev
sudo apt install giflib-dev
sudo apt install libgif-dev
sudo apt install giflib-dbg
sudo apt install libtiff
sudo apt install libtiff5-dev
sudo apt install libpoppler-glib-dev
sudo apt install libpoppler-glib8
sudo apt install librsvg2-dev
sudo apt install librsvg2
sudo apt install librsvg2-2
sudo apt install libexif-dev
./configure
make
sudo make install
vips -v
cd /etc/ld.so.conf.d/
more libc.conf # should include `/usr/local/lib`
sudo ldconfig # update shared libraries
vips -v
```

#### Go: Sqlboiler Getting Started - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fKmRemtmi0Y
- `go get -u -t github.com/vattle/sqlboiler`
- `go get -u gopkg.in/nullbio/null.v6`
- `go get -u gopkg.in/inconshreveable/log15.v2`
- Once the db is migrated, SQLboiler will generate/ update the model code (in the `models` directory)
- Copy the sqlboiler binary into place `cp $GOPATH/bin/sqlboiler ~/bin/`
- Make sure project_root/sqlboiler.toml has proper creds for your postgres database
- From the project root run `sqlboiler postgres`

## App Setup

### Migrations
- As the 'posgres' user, create a user with CREATEDB permissions
 `psql -h localhost -p 5432 -d postgres -U postgres -c "create user myuser with password 'secret' CREATEDB"`
- Create the database `postgres=# CREATE DATABASE "church_development" WITH OWNER "myuser";`
- Run goose migrations: first make sure to get and install the goose binary: https://github.com/pressly/goose
- `go get -u github.com/pressly/goose/cmd/goose`
- Note goose requires that the database is already created
- Change to the migrate directory `cd db/migrate`
- Migrate up: `goose postgres "user=myuser password=secret dbname=church_development sslmode=disable" up`
- You can manually migrate each of the sql files (though not recommended) `psql -h localhost -d church_development -U myuser -f db/migrate/20170419004813_CreateUsersTable.sql`

### Configuration
- `cp options.yml.sample options.yml`
- Update config params: `sudo nano cfg/options.yml`

#### Create a Random Seeds file
- Create a file: `cfg/random_seeds.txt` and populate it with random strings _one per line_.
- If you are not paranoid about security (you should be) you can just copy from the provided sample file `cp cfg/rand_seeds.txt.sample cfg/rand_seeds.txt`
- For the above I highly recommend Random.org's *Random File Generation Service* https://files.random.org/ (cheap)
    or manually build random_seeds.txt with strings generated by their free *Random String Generator Service*. https://www.random.org/strings/ 

## Building the Platform

```bash
# Clone the repo into a suitable place under your GOPATH
mkdir -p ~/go/src/github.com/rohanthewiz/
cd ~/go/src/github.com/rohanthewiz/
git clone <the-project-clone-url>
cd church
go build
```

### Initial Run
- I do apologize that there is some seeding required here
- Start the server `./church`
- A token is written to the file `token.txt` in the project root. Use the token to create the superadmin user with a url similar to:
 `server.domain/super?username=mysuperuser&password=secret&token=theTokenblahblah.`
- The slug of the Main menu should be hardwired to "main-menu". For now manually update that DB entry
- The slug for the Footer menu also should be hardwired to "footer-menu"
- One page must be made the home page with a slug of "home"

### Install RunIt process supervisor (Optional) for running the app
sudo apt-get install runit
- `sudo mkdir -p /etc/sv/church`
- `cd /etc/sv/church`
- `sudo nano run`
- Below is a sample Runit script
- Note: chpst (Change Process state) looks for envars in `env_dir` specified by the `-e` flag

```bash
#!/bin/sh -e
exec 2>&1
cd /home/myuser/go/src/github.com/rohanthewiz/church
exec chpst -e /etc/service/church/env_dir "/home/myuser/go/src/github.com/rohanthewiz/church/church"
```

- `sudo chmod +x run`
- `./run` # it should run manually
- `cd /etc/service`
- `sudo ln -s /etc/sv/church church`
- `sudo sv status church`
- `sudo sv up church`

## Backup the DB (Might be a good candidate for crontab)
- On the server run `pg_dump -U myuser church_development > ~/church_db-2018-0624.sql`

## Contributing
- Contribute only non-styling changes. Styling should be done in your main project
- Individual projects can make styling changes in their master branch
- Individual projects can then merge changes from core into their master branch without affecting their individual styling.
- In summary: core is the shareable branch, master is your own
- _We will not accept styling changes in a PR_, so keep those out of core if you'd like to contribute back to the project
- A contribution flow might look like this:
    1. Fork the project
    1. Clone your repo
    1. `git checkout master`
    1. Git add and commit code changes
    1. Test, test, test
    1. Git push
    1. On Github, make a pull request to this project
    
Happy Coding :-)
